
Individual Project Proposal:
Are You Fitter Than a Norwegian?


Antonio Marino
Department of Computer Science
CS 257.00: Software Design
Professor Amy Csizmar Dalal
January 27, 2022

User Persona:

Figure 1: Katherine on her morning jog to the gym (Microgen Images).
Katherine is a beginner runner. A recent St. Olaf graduate, she is
a hard working 23 year old engineer in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Unfortunately, her desk job requires her to sit throughout much
of the day, so she hasn’t been feeling very healthy. In response,
she has taken up jogging to work and to the gym. One morning, she
thinks to herself: “I don’t know much about running, but I recently
started doing it a couple times a week, and I’d like to gauge my
current level of fitness.” Her primary goal is to get fit right
now, so she feels better physically and mentally, but subconsciously,
she simply wants to live a healthier, longer life. Because she is 
new to running, Katherine also wants to develop her specific 
cardio goals beyond just getting healthier. To accomplish these, 
she will try to determine her current level of fitness and how 
much she has to improve before reaching her fitness goals by 
visiting our site.

Although she has lived her entire life in the US, Katherine
has heard that Norwegians live longer on average than Americans.
Therefore, if she compares herself to Norwegians and ranks highly,
she believes she is more likely to live longer, and if she
doesn’t rank well, that will only further motivate her.

As a typical Zoomer, Katherine has expectations
when using a tech service: she wants it to be
timely, reliable, easy to use, and intuitive.
She wants the site to work on her phone or
mobile device, so she can use it just before
or after the gym. It should have a stable URL
that can be easily accessed, and the page it
to which it takes her should be easy to understand.
Along with training cardio, she has recently started
doing strength training, so she expects our
site to look and operate much like the strength
calculators she has used.


User Stories and Acceptance Criteria:

1. Katherine should be able to enter a relatively
small amount of data about her runs and get a metric
that quantifies her performance, so she can see where
she currently stands:
a. Katherine can enter a valid run time.
b. Katherine can enter a valid distance she ran.
c. Katherine can enter a valid speed she ran.
d. Katherine can get a predicted VO2 Max score that
quantifies her performance based on the data she inputted.

2. Katherine also wants to get a feel for how fast
Norwegians run across percentiles of fitness
levels in order to better place herself and her goals within
a distribution:
a. Katherine can enter a valid percentile.
b. Katherine can enter a valid time she wants to run.
c. Katherine can enter a valid distance she wants to run.
d. Katherine can enter a valid speed she wants to run.
e. Given a percentile and distance, the site will output
a valid time over which a Norwegian in the given
percentile can run.
f. Given a percentile and speed, the site will
output a valid time over which a Norwegian in the
given percentile can run.
g. Given a percentile and distance, the site will
output a valid speed at which a Norwegian in the
given percentile can run.
h. Given a percentile and time, the site will
output a valid speed at which a Norwegian in the
given percentile can run.
i. Given a percentile and time, the site will
output a valid distance through which a Norwegian
in the given percentile can run.
j. Given a percentile and speed, the site will
output a valid distance through which a Norwegian
in the given percentile can run.

3. Moreover, Katherine should be able to determine what
VO2 Max Score she would need in order to reach a certain
percentile of Norwegian because she wants to visualize
how much she will need to improve before she can reach
her goals:
a. Katherine can enter a valid percentile.
b. Given a valid percentile, the site will output a VO2 Max
score of a Norwegian.

References
Microgen Images. Woman Jogging In City At Night.
Pixels (2019).
https://pixels.com/featured/1-woman-jogging-in-city-at-night-microgen-imagesscience-photo-library.html.
